Static Objects (Greg)

Some objects are too large, heavy, or unwieldy for an adventruer to pick up and take with them. 
As such, these items are not allowed to be taken from the room. Instead, the user can interact with them.
Think of these as item an adventurer SHOULDN'T be allowed to take; i.e., levers on walls, computer consoles, 
filing cabinets, etc. As the dungeon file is read in, the item weight is consulted; items with "99999" as 
their item weight are tagged as items that canot be taken. 

You can test this out from the intial room, "Engine Control". There is a "holoplinth" in the room. Think
of it as a futuristic computer terminal, with a holographic GUI. Try to "take holoplinth"; you will see that
it stuck to the floor. Instead, you are provided with a message that informs you that you can interact with it
instead. 

---

Interactive Objects (Greg)

Items are rather boring if you can't do much with them. As such, our dungeon includes interactive objects. 
These are "special objects" that allow the user to do alot more with them than the standard construct allows. 
The "holoplinth" and "dataslate" are two such items. Each item has an "unlock" event associated with a verb 
pair. You can "activate" the holoplinth and "unlock" the dataslate. Each verb triggers the "unlock" event that
is specific to that item. The program is also smart enough to remember if each item is locked or unlocked at
save time. 

The holoplinth has a passphrase ("golgotha") this information is found on the backs of the orkglyph items.
The dataslate has a code ("3324"), which are found in the number of flashes in the servoskull item's eyes. 
These are harcoded in to the program. After each item has the correct code/passphrase entered into it, a new 
item is replaced that is functional. In the game sense, you unlocked access to the holoplinth's programs, 
or the dataslate's functions. The holoplinth allows you to scan the dungeon for the location of NPCs and to 
teleport to a desired room. "Access" the holoplinth after unlocking it and choose "BioScan". The plinth will 
actively search the dungeon for bioforms and return their locations.

In order to teleport, you must possess the powerpack in your inventory. If you do not have the pack, the plinth
will inform you you're unable to teleport. It is initially located in room "Intersection Epsilong Eng", which is
(w, w) from engine control. Once you take the powerpack, access the holoplinth and choose the teleport function. 
The holoplinth will inform you that the powerpack will be consumed during the process (it is removed from inventory).
Insert the powerpack into the plinth, by responding "Y" to the prompt. The holoplinth will return the available rooms
to teleport to. Choose a location by entering the associated numeric location.

Teleporation is inherently cantankerous, as any sci fi fan is aware. As such, it will often malfunction, 
making any teleportation journey perilous to the user. A random number is generated prior to teleportation. 
4-10 are safe, with no ill effects. The user's score is appended as the random number * 5.

0-3 are dangerous. 

0: The teleportation rips you apart and kills you. Game over. 
1: The teleportation reassembles you, but not correctly.  Lose 50% health. -20 points.
2: The teleportation sequence rips the holoplinth from the room and transports it instead of the user. -15 points.
3: The teleportation does not contain enough energy (faulty coil?) and cannot transport the user's inventory. -10 points.

The dataslate allows the user to perform a local scan for NPCs. It will actively scan adjacent rooms from the user's 
location and return the NPCs location. Since it's portable, it is less powerful than the holoplinth. 

---

NPCs (Greg)

Our dungeon includes NPCs. In order to really draw a defining line between the NPCs and other items just laying
around, these NPCs have a bit of logic built into them. NPCs have two important attributes; the ability to move,
and their current mood. Naturally, if they are mobile, they can move. However, if they are mobile and angry, 
they will attempt to follow the user through the dungeon. The original thought for this logic attempted to 
account for cowardly users who would attempt to run from a fight. 

Each time the player moves within the dungeon, the NPCs move as well. Each NPC will scan rooms adjacent to
themselves, and the room they are currently in. If the player is within one of those rooms, and the NPC is angry
the NPC will follow the user through the dungeon. If they are not angry, they will move to a random ADJACENT room.

This is difficult to test, as the NPCs do move on their own. However, a "Squig" starts in the "Equipment Locker"
room, and a "Ork Nob" starts out in the "Decon Secundus" room. Both are angry and will follow you if you come 
close enough. You can verify their movement by unlocking the holoplinth, accessing it, and bioscanning. After your 
first scan, move out of the room and back into it. Then bioscan again. The NPCs will have changed locations.

As the NPCs move through the Dungeon, they'll randomly pick up items and add them to their inventory. You're not
the only one looking for things to take. Each time an Ork enters a room, they'll attempt to pick up each item in 
it provided they are not chasing the user through the dungeon. While Orks are greedy, they'd much rather bludgeon
you than steal things from rooms. They have a 50% chance to pick up each item in the room. To ensure the Orks don't
soak up all the items in the dungeon, they will drop a random item from their inventory, when they have too much in it. 
(>3). After all, Orks will drop something to pick up something that's shinier. 

These items can be stolen from the NPC by use of the "steal" command. However, stealing items from an angry Ork is no easy task. 
If there is an Ork in the room you're located in, you can try to steal from it. Type "Steal from (the name of the Ork)". 
The interpreter will attempt to verify there is an Ork in the room and determine if you're calling out a correct Ork to steal from. 
If you don't specify an Ork, the game will prompt you to specifyone. If the room is empty, the game will inform you as such - and 
you'll lose points for being an idiot. 

After you try to steal, and the game verifies there is someone to steal from, it's all a roll of the dice. You're
trying to steal from Orks, which are inherently greedy. Orks will try to hold onto what they have, making them less able to 
hit you. However, if they're not carrying anything, they'll gladly beat you to death. Failures can result in horrible outcomes 
as indicated below:

++++Ork is NOT carrying items, but isn't angry:

0:  You make it mad, lose half your health, and aren't informed if the Ork had anything in the first place.
1:	You make it mad, lose a third of your health, and aren't informed if the Ork had anything in the first place.
2:  You make it mad, lose one-quarter health, and aren't informed if the Ork had anything in the first place.
3-5:	You make it mad, and aren't informed if the Ork had anything in the first place.

All take away 10 points. 

6-7:	You make it mad, and are informed it wasn't carrying anything. 
8-9:	You're informed it wasn't carrying anything. 

++++Ork is NOT carrying items, but is angry: 

0: You receive a world altering blow, reducing your health to 1. Not informed if carrying items or not. 
1-3:	You receive a mind numbing blow, losing half your health. Not informed if carrying items or not. 
4-6:	You receive a solid blow, losing one-third health. Not informed if carrying items or not.
7-8:	You receive a glancing blow, losing one-quarter health. Informed the Ork had nothing to steal. 

All take away 20 points.  

9:	You're informed the ork wasn't carrying anything.

++++Ork IS carrying items, but isn't angry:

0:	You receive a hard blow that reduces your health by a quarter. Lose 10 points. Makes Ork mad. 
1:	You receive a glancing blow that reduces your health by a fifth. Lose 10 points. Makes Ork mad. 
2-4:	Makes ork mad. Lose 10 points. 
5-7:	Successful steal. Get 20 points and an item. 
8:	Successful steal. Break the orks legs (no longer mobile). Get 30 points and an item. 
9:	Successful steal. You're so crafty you slit the Ork's throat in the process. Kill the Ork, get all items, and 50 points.
	You gain 50% health. 

++++Ork IS carrying items, and IS angry:

0:	You receive a world altering blow that reduces your health to 1. Lose 30 points. 
1-3:	You receive a glancing hit, reducing your health by a fifth. Lose 30 points. 
4-6:	You steal an item from the Ork, but pay for it in the process. Lose one-quarter health. Gain 20 points. 
7-8:	You steal an item from the Ork. Gain 40 points as well. 
9:  You steal all items from the Ork. Kill the Ork. Get 60 points. And walk out a veritable bad ass.

Thought for the day: Don't try to pick pocket Orks, unless your willing to pay the price. 

--- 

Locked Doors(Shane)

Locked doors adds a bit of a challenge to our game. As you go through the dungeon, you will encounter doors that you cannot pass through 
unless you have the key specific to that door. There are certain items that act as keys and there are specific doors that can be
unlocked with those specific keys. The basic idea is if you are in a room, and you type ’n’, it will say, this door is locked and you can type 
this exact phrase: “unlock door with key”. The 2 things you will change in that statement are “door” and “key”. The name of the door is different
(because different rooms have different doors) and different keys unlock those different doors. 
Some examples of this are:
unlock door with greencaccard
unlock heavymetaldoor with oldrustedkey
unlock reactordoor with reactor key
etc…

Once you unlock a door, it will stay open so you do not need to reopen it. If you save and restart from that save file, the doors will be unlocked. Here is a breakdown of which door is in which room and 
which key unlocks that door. I have also included Room Diagram(1).PNG which shows these exits 

Intersection Gamma Eng north exit - heavymetaldoor - oldrustedkey
Corridor Delta Eng(N) south exit- heavymetaldoor - oldrustedkey

Intersection Gamma Eng south exit - door - greencaccard
Corridor Delta Eng(S) north exit - door - greencaccard

Corridor Theta Eng(S) north exit - door - greencaccard
Intersection Epsilon Eng south exit - door - greencaccard

Decon Primus west exit - reactordoor - reactorkey
Reactor Entrance east east exit - reactordoor - reactorkey

Reactor Room NE Corner west exit - strangedoor - silvercoin
Nozzle Array east exit - strange - silvercoin

Nozzle Array south exit - door - redcaccard
Reactor Floor north exit - door - redcaccard

I’ll let you figure out where the keys are :)

--- 

Combat (Corey)

Combat occurs when the player attacks an NPC. 
This can be triggered using variations of ‘fight’ and ‘attack’ and prompts the user to give their intended target and
the weapon they want to use. Once combat begins, the player does damage proportional to their item’s ability 
(if the item is a weapon) or their item’s weight (if the item is not a weapon). 
If the enemy is not killed, the player then takes health damage from that enemy and are 
given the opportunity to move or attack, again being prompted for target and weapon 
(to account for fighting multiple enemies). Combat can be tested in the first room. 
To do this, type “take combatdrugs” to pick up the item. 
Once this is done, enter “attack OrkBoy”. 
When prompted for a weapon, type “combatdrugs”. 
While using weapons will be much more effective, you have just engaged in combat! 

---

Reload (Josh)

Reload is a function built into the game that allows the user to revert to the most recently created save file
this is useful for a plethora of reasons but most importantly its there to allow forgiveness if the player choses so.
lets say your playing and having the greatest game of your life, you have all the best items/weapons and the highest score then BAM
you die to some random event or are killed by an enemy. well thankfully for you, you remembered to save the game a few turns ago and all you need to do is call the 'reload' or 'restart' command and then you are fully loaded back safe and sound.

---

Random Event (Josh)

The random event is built into the game to add some depth, allow for some variance, and to make the game feel more intreactive.
everytime the player presses enter on the keyboard a counter is increased by 1, whenever the counter is an even number a random number is then generated. that random number is what dictates whether or not a random event occurs on that turn, there are a total of 10 random events that can occur over the course of the game, some of them can happen semi frequently and others could possibly never happen to you even over mulitple play throughs of the game, which may be a good thing as the super rare events typically kill you. Most events only trigger a text output for the player to read, but some affect the health of the player. In one event the player gets lost due to confusion and ends up back at the start of the dungeon.

---
